---
title: Battery Validation - Drain Test
description: Battery Validation - Drain Test
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: f0f98ac2-3890-4ea0-8b66-4823a854610b
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.11c8b6c9-5aef-4da7-98ad-85cd0d9a821f"></span>Battery Validation - Drain Test


This test is available when 'Systems' option of the HLK Selection UI is selected.

Unlike most HLK tests, this test will have to be run four times (back to back) for proper test coverage. Each time when the test is run it will indicate what iteration its on, for example when the test is run for the first time it will print 'Iteration 1 of 4' in the log file. On the final iteration the test will print a message such as 'Iteration 4 of 4'.

In each iteration system is either expected to be charged or discharged, the log window will indicate if the system is on charge cycle or discharge cycle. If the test is on a charge cycle it will display a message 'Waiting for system to go on AC', and when the test is on discharge cycle it will display 'Waiting for system to go on DC', please plug in the charger and unplug the charger respectively. Note that log window may not be visible on all systems.

Also at the end of each test iteration the test indicates if that iteration was successful with message 'Test iteration passed' message. If the test iteration fails 'Test iteration failed' message will be printed in the log, next time when the test is run it will re-run the last iteration.

These are the four iterations of the test:

(1) System is put on DC and discharged.

(2) System is put on AC and recharged.

(3) System is put on DC and discharged.

(4) System is put on AC and recharged.

>[!NOTE]
>  If it is desired to re-start the test iteration, please run the 'Battery Validation - Drain Test Reset' test (only once), after that this test will commence from iteration one again.)

 

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>System.Fundamentals.Battery.Discretional</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
<li>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions ARM64</li>
<li>Windows 10 Mobile ARM64</li>
<li>Windows Server 2016 x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>1440</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>1440</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>manual</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [System.Fundamentals additional documentation](system-fundamentals-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [System Client Testing Prerequisites](system-client-testing-prerequisites.md).

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting System Client Testing](troubleshooting-system-client-testing.md).

 

 






