---
title: Audio Codec - SysFX Test
description: Audio Codec - SysFX Test
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: a322f6a7-774d-469c-b0b3-a1db9dcecb7e
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.76583675-20f6-45e4-8792-8c043a45644a"></span>Audio Codec - SysFX Test


This automated test verifies users have the ability to enable and disable system effects on an audio endpoint in the event it is malfunctioning or otherwise affecting the user experience.

During this test, you must respond to prompts displayed to complete the test.

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Audio.APO.MicArrayRawData</li>
<li>Device.Audio.APO.WinPEConformance</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
<li>Windows Server 2016 x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>120</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>true</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [Device.Audio additional documentation](device-audio-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Audio Device Testing Prerequisites](audio-device-testing-prerequisites.md).

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Audio Testing](troubleshooting-audio-testing.md).

Before you start this test, install your device and driver and verify that the audio device is working properly. As with most UI automation tests, make sure that the desktop is free of unnecessary windows or other elements. Do not cause any manual input (via keyboard or mouse) that might disturb the test while it is running.

If multiple languages are installed on the test computer, you must select a preferred display language in Control Panel.

**To set the preferred language**

1.  In Control Panel, click **Region and Language**.

2.  Click the **Keyboards and Languages** tab.

3.  Under **Display language**, under **Choose a display language**, click **English**.

4.  Click **OK**.

5.  To apply settings, log off and then log back on, or restart the computer.

6.  If you need it, use **Testpassword,1** as the password for the DTMLLUAdminUser account.

## <span id="More_information"></span><span id="more_information"></span><span id="MORE_INFORMATION"></span>More information


This test is an automated user interface test. The script verifies that each extensible vendor-provided system effects property page set which is in turn to be registered on each visible endpoint (displayed to the user within the MM Control Panel CPL configuration dialogs) implements at least one check box to enable and disable the said audio effect; per the Microsoft Windows Logo Program requirements.

This manual test provides an automated UI test. The script verifies that each extensible vendor-provided system effects property page set which is in turn to be registered on each visible endpoint (displayed to the user in the **MM Control Panel CPL** configuration dialog boxes) implements at least one check box to enable and disable the audio effect; in compliance with the Windows Hardware Lab Kit (HLK) requirements.

On each audio playback or recording endpoint that the test finds to have registered UI to be displayed in the form of a property-sheet set that is visible to users, a check-box requirement exists.

For these endpoints, a conventional check-box control must be both visible and functional on at least one property sheet in each vendor-provided property page that is set on each registered endpoint. The check box must have the correct control ID set so that this UI automation test can identify it and make sure that it is working appropriately.

>[!NOTE]
>  
The check box must set the correct property-key value for enabling (when it is selected) and disabling (when it is cleared) the Audio Processing Object (APO).

 

### <span id="Command_syntax"></span><span id="command_syntax"></span><span id="COMMAND_SYNTAX"></span>Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Cscript sysfx.ui.wdk.verifyenabledisablecheckbox.wsf</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Without any options, the test runs through its default verification.</p>
<div class="alert">
<strong>Note</strong>  
<p>When you are scheduling from Job Explorer for private testing, set the <strong>[WDKDeviceID]</strong> option to the device ID.</p>
</div>
<div>
 
</div></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

>[!NOTE]
>  
For help with this test job, review the Sysfx.ui.wdk.verifyenabledisablecheckbox.wsf file in a text editor.

 

### <span id="File_list"></span><span id="file_list"></span><span id="FILE_LIST"></span>File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>S98wtt.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\nttest\multimediatest\common\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sysfx.ui.wdk.verifyenabledisablecheckbox.wsf</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\nttest\multimediatest\deviceui\UIScripts\sysfx\sysfx.ui.wdk.verifyenabledisablecheckbox.wsf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

### <span id="Parameters"></span><span id="parameters"></span><span id="PARAMETERS"></span>Parameters

| Parameter name         | Parameter description                   |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| **WDKDeviceID**        | Device ID string                        |
| **LLU\_NetAccessOnly** | Name of machine's LLU for copying files |
| **TestPro**            | Test Case Profile String                |

 

 

 






