---
title: Manual Test - Verify FFU image flashing using FFUTool
description: Manual Test - Verify FFU image flashing using FFUTool
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: f5fbd868-b021-41b8-bba5-85c8cb1870a4
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.7e7529cb-f8f4-4414-bccc-46ef28818568"></span>Manual Test - Verify FFU image flashing using FFUTool


This is a manual test & it should be run outside HLK by following the manual instructions provided below. If this test is run as an automated test from HLK studio/controller, the test will pass by default without testing any functionality. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Manual instructions to run this test: 1.Software Prerequisites a.ffutool.exe 2.Setting up the Test a.From a powered down state, press the power button, release it, and immediately as the phone boots hold the Volume Up button.Wait until the phone displays a graphical image containing a lightning bolt and a gear. 3.Running the Test a.Connect the phone to the PC using a USB cable.If all is well, you should see a "QUALCOMM MSM DEVICE" device(or "WinUsb Device") in Device Manager. b.Open a command window with Administrator privileges. c.Run the following command from the directory where ffutool.exe is located.You should include the complete path to the location of the flash.ffu file that you want to install: ffutool.exe - flash \\\\&lt; PATH\_TO\_FLASH.FFU\_FILE &gt;\\flash.ffu d.Console output will indicate when flashing is complete. e.Verify: The device should automatically boot to the main OS. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Note: This test is associated with an optional feature: System.Client.MobileHardware. It will not appear in the list of tests in HLK studio for a system target by default. Optional: To enable it to show up in the list of tests for system target in HLK studio, run the following steps: 1\] In HLK Studio, select system target 2\] Right click on the selected system target 3\] Click on Add\\Modify Features 4\] A Device Feature List window will open up 5\] Scroll down to select the feature named: System.Client.MobileHardware 6\] Click on the check box to enable this optional feature 7\] This test will now appear in the list of applicable tests for the selected system target in HLK studio

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>System.Client.MobileHardware.BasicFunctionality</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>manual</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [System.Client additional documentation](system-client-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

 

 






