---
title: Test.DeviceClickPressure
description: Test.DeviceClickPressure
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: bcc57e89-3d97-4495-822c-a81c436f89b1
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.94cdf7ba-da0d-4d5f-9774-50951fe50606"></span>Test.DeviceClickPressure


This test verifies that the device properly registers a click based on the amount of pressure applied to the surface of the touchpad.

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Input.Digitizer.PrecisionTouchpad.Buttons</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Compatibility</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>120</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [Device.Input additional documentation](device-input-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Mouse or other Pointing Device Testing Prerequisites](mouse-or-other-pointing-device-testing-prerequisites.md).

>[!NOTE]
>  
You just have a 140g and 190g 7 millimeter metal slug.

 

For this test, you will be verifying the pressure needed to register a click on the touchpad in 5 locations. These locations are slightly different, depending on whether your device is a clickpad or a pressurepad. On a pressurepad, the points map directly to the center of the touchpad and the 4 corners. On a clickpad, we bisect the touchpad in half and test the four corners and center of the bottom half of the clickpad.

**Iteration 1**

1.  Place the 140g slug next to the bottom left corner of the device, but not touching the device (resting on the surrounding casing of the touchpad).

2.  Carefully slide the slug onto the touchpad, to the bottom left corner.

3.  Verify that no button click is reported (the bar at the bottom of the screen should stay grey and not turn green). If no button click is reported, press **P** to pass the iteration. Otherwise, press **F** to fail.

**Iteration 2**

-   Repeat the steps in Iteration 1 in the bottom right corner of the device.

**Iteration 3**

1.  Carefully place the 140g slug on the bottom left corner of the touchpad surface.

2.  Slide the slug upwards to the top left corner of the touchpad.

3.  Verify that no button click is reported (the bar at the bottom of the screen should stay grey and not turn green). If no button click is reported, press **P** to pass the iteration. Otherwise, press **F** to fail.

**Iteration 4**

-   Repeat the steps in Iteration 3, but slide the slug from the bottom right corner to the top right corner.

**Iteration 5**

-   Repeat the steps in Iteration 3, but slide the slug from the bottom left corner to the center of the touchpad.

**Iteration 6**

1.  Repeat actions of iteration 1 using a 190g slug instead of the 140g slug.

2.  If grey bar in PTLogo turns green when the slug is down and back to grey when the slug is removed, then press P to manually pass the iteration. Otherwise, press F to manually fail the iteration.

**Iteration 7**

1.  Repeat actions of iteration 2 using a 190g slug instead of the 140g slug.

2.  If grey bar in PTLogo turns green when the slug is down and back to grey when the slug is removed, then press P to manually pass the iteration. Otherwise, press F to manually fail the iteration.

**Iteration 8**

1.  Repeat actions of iteration 3 using a 190g slug instead of the 140g slug.

2.  If grey bar in PTLogo turns green when the slug is down and back to grey when the slug is removed, then press P to manually pass the iteration. Otherwise, press F to manually fail the iteration.

**Iteration 9**

1.  Repeat actions of iteration 4 using a 190g slug instead of the 140g slug.

2.  If grey bar in PTLogo turns green when the slug is down and back to grey when the slug is removed, then press P to manually pass the iteration. Otherwise, press F to manually fail the iteration.

**Iteration 10**

1.  Repeat actions of iteration 5 using a 190g slug instead of the 140g slug.

2.  If grey bar in PTLogo turns green when the slug is down and back to grey when the slug is removed, then press P to manually pass the iteration. Otherwise, press F to manually fail the iteration.

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Input Testing](troubleshooting-deviceinput-testing.md).

## <span id="More_information"></span><span id="more_information"></span><span id="MORE_INFORMATION"></span>More information


### <span id="Command_syntax"></span><span id="command_syntax"></span><span id="COMMAND_SYNTAX"></span>Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ptlogo.exe Test.DeviceClickPressure.json</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Runs the test.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

### <span id="File_list"></span><span id="file_list"></span><span id="FILE_LIST"></span>File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>ptlogo.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\input\PrecisionTouchpad\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>config.json</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\input\PrecisionTouchpad\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Test.DeviceClickPressure.json</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\input\PrecisionTouchpad\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






