---
title: Office 2013 Basic Test Cases (PowerPoint)
description: Office 2013 Basic Test Cases (PowerPoint)
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 864607a1-d289-4655-a0cc-78af00610a54
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.c089b830-ca4c-409b-9d2b-a88d57e09c00"></span>Office 2013 Basic Test Cases (PowerPoint)


Basic test cases to verify that Office 2013 works with a display driver or system. PowerPoint 1. Copy Test\_Presentation.pptx to the machine where Office is installed and you are doing the testing 2. Once you’ve copied it, double click Test Presentation.pptx on that machine 3. Verify PowerPoint boots, the file is opened, and there are no rendering issues 4. If the window is maximized, click on the restore down button in the upper right corner of the window to allow the window to be resized 5. Click, hold and drag the bottom right corner of the window to slowly resize the window to be smaller and bigger 6. Verify there are no rendering issues 7. Select slide 2 in the presentation 8. Select the box that says “Select Me” 9. Click on the Design in the ribbon 10. In the Layouts section of Design, hover over the various Layout options shown in the drop down box 11. Verify that as you hover from one to the other that the SmartArt on slide 2 animates smoothly to the currently moused-over SmartArt and there are no rendering issues 12. Connect to an external projector or additional monitor and extend Windows to the 2nd display device 13. Verify there are no rendering issues when 2nd display is connected 14. Hit F5 15. Verify PowerPoint enters presentation mode with 1 screen as the normal presentation and 1 screen showing the presentation view and there are no rendering issues 16. Hit the Up and Down area a few times 17. Verify slides move to the next/previous slide and there are no rendering issues In addition to specific verifications listed in the steps above, the general types of issues that may be encountered include: Application crashes Broken or missing functionality Rendering issues (ie. flickering UI, frame rate drops, piecemeal drawing, failure to repaint, choppy or slow animations) App Responsiveness problems (typing, selection, UI, “Not Responding”, hangs, Inability to cancel)

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Graphics.WDDM.Discretional</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
<li>Windows Server 2016 x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Scenario</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>600</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>true</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [Device.Graphics additional documentation](device-graphics-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="More_information"></span><span id="more_information"></span><span id="MORE_INFORMATION"></span>More information


### <span id="Parameters"></span><span id="parameters"></span><span id="PARAMETERS"></span>Parameters

| Parameter name         | Parameter description |
|------------------------|-----------------------|
| **LLU\_NetAccessOnly** | LLU name of net user  |

 

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

 

 






