---
title: Winsock Core Functional Test
description: Winsock Core Functional Test
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 223ef875-b983-45ef-a54f-53c6909103e5
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.c5cd6116-7289-483f-a699-d2121194245a"></span>Winsock Core Functional Test


This automated test iterates through some of the core Winsock functionality against a loopback interface and verifies whether the Winsock API interface is correctly maintained.

All tests cover IPv4 and IPv6 sockets, which all bind to the loopback interface. Variations are as follows:

-   **Socket Catalog.** Enumerates the Winsock catalog, creates a socket for each returned **protocolinfo** structure (each protocol tuple), and binds it to the loopback interface.

-   **OVERLAPPED IO.** Creates both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP stream sockets, establishes a connection over loopback, and sends data between sockets via blocking send and overlapped receive calls. All data is verified as received.

-   **TransmitFile variation.** Verifies that **TransmitFile** correctly sends data and implements the **TF\_DISCONNECT** flag for socket reuse for both IPv4 and IPv6 sockets. Creates a 260-byte temporary file and transmits over a TCP connection via **TransmitFile**. The listening socket uses **AcceptEx** to verify the connection and socket reuse.

-   **ConditionalAccept.** Verifies semantics of conditional accept over both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP stream sockets. Tests five connections: without a listener, returning **CF\_REJECT**, returning **CF\_ACCEPT**, returning **CF\_DEFER + CF\_REJECT**, and returning **CF\_DEFER + CF\_ACCEPT**.

-   **Streams.** Blocks send/receive over IPv4 and IPv6 TCP stream sockets. Defers calling acceptance with a zero listen backlog until the connection has finished.

-   **Datagrams.** Verifies sending and receiving of datagrams over IPv4 and IPv6 UDP sockets. Tests both sending datagrams via connect/send/receive and connectionless send to/receive from.

-   **Select.** Verifies **READFDS** notification on both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets for indications of connection establishment, receiving data, and closure of the socket.

-   **Bind.** Verifies bind semantics for IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets: basic bind, **SO\_REUSEADDR** binds, and **SO\_EXCLUSIVEADDRUSE** binds.

-   **ReadFile/WriteFile.** Verifies whether overlapped **ReadFile()** and **WriteFile()** functions work correctly over both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets.

-   **Shutdown.** Verifies **shutdown()** semantics on IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets by establishing a connection, posting a blocking receive, and verifying whether calling shutdown completes the receive with zero bytes received.

-   **Addressing.** Verifies the conversion of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses from h, decimal, and octal strings to the corresponding socket address structure values (**WSAAddressToString** and **WSAStringToAddress**).

-   **Multicast.** For IPv4 and IPv6, verifies the joining to multicast groups via **IP\_ADD\_MEMBERSHIP** and **IPV6\_ADD\_MEMBERSHIP**, sending and receiving data to the group, and leaving the group.

-   **JoinLeaf.** For IPv4 and IPv6, verifies the joining to multicast groups via **WSAJoinLeaf**, sending and receiving data to the group, and leaving the group.

-   **AsyncSelect.** For IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets, verifies that **FD\_CONNECT**, **FD\_SEND**, and **FD\_READ** Windows messages are processed via **WSAAsyncSelect**. Also verifies whether **FD\_CONNECT** is processed when a multicast socket completes **WSAJoinLeaf**.

-   **IOCP.** For IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets, makes overlapped receive calls in which the socket is associated with an I/O completion port. Also verifies whether the overlapped completions are processed and all data is received.

-   **RAW socket.** For IPv4 and IPv6, creates raw sockets, sending and receiving Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) messages via **OVERLAPPED IO**.

-   **PnP.** Verifies whether overlapped address change notification is signaled when non-loopback IP addresses are added to and removed from the first non-loopback.

For more information about the Winsock API, see [Windows Sockets 2](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=236050).

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Filter.Driver.FileSystem.MiniFilter</li>
<li>Filter.Driver.AntiVirus.MiniFilter</li>
<li>Filter.Driver.AntiVirus.Winsock</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
<li>Windows Server 2016 x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>1800</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [Filter.Driver additional documentation](filter-driver-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


For more information about requirements, see [File System Testing Prerequisites](file-system-testing-prerequisites.md).

In addition, this test requires the following software:

-   A filter driver to be tested along with any supporting application suite

-   At least one connected network interface that has a valid IPv4 and IPv6 address

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting File System Testing](troubleshooting-file-system-testing.md).

All test cases return Pass or Fail. To review test details, review the test log from Windows HLK Studio.

>[!NOTE]
>  
Windows Firewall may open a message that suggests that the firewall may be blocking some features of the test. However, the firewall does not affect the test. You can safely ignore this message.

 

If this procedure does not provide a successful test result, submit the test log with device-specific or system-specific details to the Windows Hardware Lab Kit (HLK) Support alias.

## <span id="More_information"></span><span id="more_information"></span><span id="MORE_INFORMATION"></span>More information


### <span id="Command_syntax"></span><span id="command_syntax"></span><span id="COMMAND_SYNTAX"></span>Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Winsockfunctional -protocol ip -t &quot;Winsock API\Current Protocols (IPv4/IPv6)\BVT&quot; -wtt -r -dontdisable -ipsec -notrace</strong></p></td>
<td><p>You must supply this core argument.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-lsponly</strong></p></td>
<td><p>You must append this argument when an LSP is installed.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

>[!NOTE]
>  
For command-line help for this test binary, type **/h**.

 

### <span id="File_list"></span><span id="file_list"></span><span id="FILE_LIST"></span>File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>WinsockFunctional.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\NTTest\NetTest\Winsock\common\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>WinsockFunctional.wtl</p></td>
<td><p>Detailed output log that contains the test results</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wsbvt.log</p></td>
<td><p>Summary output log of the test results</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Bvterr.log</p></td>
<td><p>Summary output log of the test results</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Fnshell.ini</p></td>
<td><p>Temporary .ini file that the test generates and uses</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

### <span id="Parameters"></span><span id="parameters"></span><span id="PARAMETERS"></span>Parameters

| Parameter name         | Parameter description |
|------------------------|-----------------------|
| **LLU\_LocalAdmin**    | LLU for execution     |
| **LLU\_NetAccessOnly** | LLU for Copy          |

 

 

 






