---
title: Glitchfree HD Video Playback on AC ( Manual on mobile systems )
description: Glitchfree HD Video Playback on AC ( Manual on mobile systems )
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: af5a9835-696f-48b8-8efc-022f60ca3670
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.f0ed5aa8-ef49-4fc9-99b6-753c857e4e2d"></span>Glitchfree HD Video Playback on AC ( Manual on mobile systems )

>[!IMPORTANT]
>  
This test requires supplemental content. You can find this content in the 'Windows HLK supplemental test content' section at the following location:

-   <http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=532718>

 

The manual test verifies that a mobile system on AC power mode is capable of playing protected and unprotected High-Definition content with no perceivable glitch during playback.

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>System.Client.VideoPlayback.GlitchfreeHDVideoPlayback</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>20</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Scenario</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>60</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [System.Client additional documentation](system-client-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [System Client Testing Prerequisites](system-client-testing-prerequisites.md).

In addition, perform the following steps:

1.  Make sure that the Video and Music apps are installed on the system. You can get both apps from the Store.

2.  Make sure the .mp4 and .wmv extensions are registered to the Video app. To do this, right-click a sample file that has the appropriate extension, click **Properties**, click **Open with**, and select the Video app.

3.  Make sure the .m4a and .wma files are registered to the Music app. To do this, right-click a sample file that has the appropriate extension, click **Properties**, click **Open with**, and select the Music app.

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](..\user\troubleshooting-windows-hlk-test-failures.md).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting System Client Testing](troubleshooting-system-client-testing.md).

## <span id="More_information"></span><span id="more_information"></span><span id="MORE_INFORMATION"></span>More information


The HLK GlitchFree test plays back two video clips using the inbox Video application. The content is played back in Fullscreen while ETW logging is enabled in the background. After each scenario, the test post processes the ETW log and extracts metrics, which are used to determine whether the test passes or fails.

**Pass/Fail Criteria & Metric Details**

Glitch Metrics

-   Video Glitches - The Media Engine’s Video renderer (SVR) detects when a frame is rendered late and it fires a video glitch event. The goal for this metric is 0. Provider and event details:

    -   Microsoft-Windows-MediaEngine

    -   Channel - MediaFoundationMediaEngine – 16

    -   Level - win:Verbose – 5

    -   Task - VideoFrameGlitch - 23

-   Dropped Frames - The Media Engine fires frame drop events when the source drops a frame. When frames are dropped, the user experiences glitchy video. The goal is 0. Provider and event details:

    -   Microsoft-Windows-MediaEngine

    -   Channel - MediaFoundationMediaEngine – 16

    -   Level - win:Verbose – 5

    -   Task - DroppedFrame - 18

-   DWM Schedule Glitches – The desktop window manager (DWM) fires a glitch event when DWM samples are rendered late. The goal for this metric is 0. The test starts tracking this event 500ms after the first PresentedFrame event (Task ID 19, Event ID 115). The test stops tracking this event 66ms after the last instance of PresentedFrame event (Task ID 19, Event ID 115). Provider and event details:

    -   Microsoft-Windows-Dwm-Core

    -   Channel - Microsoft-Windows-Dwm-Core/Diagnostic – 16

    -   Level - win:Informational – 4

    -   Task - SCHEDULE\_GLITCH - 17

-   Audio Glitches – Audio glitches. Goal is 0.

    -   Audio Engine Provider: a6a00efd-21f2-4a99-807e-9b3bf1d90285:0x000000000000ffff:0x3

    -   ETW Classic event GUID: 2013DBB2-2F76-4B2C-950A-0C9DFAC62398

    -   Event details:

        -   Media: Audio Engine

        -   AE Events

        -   AE\_GLITCH

Total Device Creation time: The total device creation time must not exceed 50ms. Total device creation time is defined as DeviceCreation + CreateVideoDecoder, where the definition of those two metrics are:

-   DeviceCreation = The latency between the following two events

    -   Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11 &gt; Channel - Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11/PerfTiming – 18 &gt; Level - win:LogAlways – 0 &gt; Task - D3D11CoreCreateDevice - 8 &gt; Event Id - 20 (Version 0) Opcode - win:Start - 1

    -   Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11 &gt; Channel - Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11/PerfTiming – 18 &gt; Level - win:LogAlways – 0 &gt; Task - D3D11CoreCreateDevice - 8 &gt; Event Id - 21 (Version 0) Opcode - win:Stop - 2

-   CreateVideoDecoder = The latency between the first instance of the following two events:

    -   Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11 &gt; Channel - Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11/Logging – 17 &gt; Level - win:LogAlways – 0 &gt; Task - ID3D11VideoDevice\_CreateVideoDecoder - 911 &gt; Event Id - 1722 (Version 0) Opcode - win:Start - 1

    -   Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11 &gt; Channel - Microsoft-Windows-Direct3D11/Logging – 17 &gt; Level - win:LogAlways – 0 &gt; Task - ID3D11VideoDevice\_CreateVideoDecoder - 911 &gt; Event Id - 1723 (Version 0) Opcode - win:Stop - 2

Driver Metrics- The ISR/DPC duration and ISR/DPC Storm tests aim at ensuring that device drivers are well behaved. The goal is to ensure that time critical multimedia threads can run on a regular basis, with limited interruptions from ISR/DPCs.

-   ISR/DPC duration: This check is designed to validate that individual ISR/DPC duration does not exceed a 3ms threshold.

-   ISR/DPC Storm: A cumulative duration of every ISR/DPC within a 10ms window must not exceed 4ms.

GPU VSync Cadence: This case ensures that the GPU DPC VSync cadence follows a well behaved pattern. Fluctuations in GPU DPC Vysnc frequency, during media playback can result in glitches during media playback. The test criteria establishes that the cadence fluctuation should not exceed +/- 50% of the average VSync cadence window. For instance, in a 60 Hz monitor, the expected VSync DPC cadence is 16.666 ms; consequently the test will fail if any VSync DPC is fired within less that 8.3 ms from the previous one or later than 24.9 ms from the previous one. When the duration between two vsyncs is greater than 24.9ms, this often results in a perceivable video glitch. When the distance between two vsyncs is less than 8.3ms, this is often caused by the driver double firing vsyncs, or vsyncs that are a few microseconds (us) apart.

**How to enable verbose ETW logging for analysis**

To collect more verbose ETW logs, change the user-settable parameter 'DoFullLogging' to 'true' before running the tests.

**How to preserve the ETW logs for analysis in case of failure**

To preserve the ETW logs for failed test cases, change the user-settable parameter 'CopyLogsOnFailure' to 'true' before running the tests. This will also copy the ETW logs of failed test cases to the controller and be included as part of HLK package to be shared for investigation.

**Using Media Experience Analyzer to analyze failed ETW logs**

You can use Media Experience Analyzer (MXA) to analyze failed ETW logs. Download MXA from the following location:

-   <http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=43105>

### <span id="Parameters"></span><span id="parameters"></span><span id="PARAMETERS"></span>Parameters

| Parameter name        | Parameter description                                                                                                                                                                |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **TestCycles**        | Number of cycles to run the test for                                                                                                                                                 |
| **DoFullLogging**     | Enable flag for full logging of ETW traces in case of failure, and re-run this test.                                                                                                 |
| **CopyLogsOnFailure** | Enable flag to copy ETW log traces to subfolder 'ETWlogs' in case of failure, and re-run this test. This also copies the failure logs to hlkx package to be shared for investigation |
| **FrameCount**        | Minimum number of MF Events required during playback                                                                                                                                 |
| **MaxIsrDpcTime**     | Maximum ISR Dpc time in microseconds                                                                                                                                                 |
| **MaxIsrDpcStorm**    | Maximum ISR Dpc Storm in microseconds                                                                                                                                                |
| **MaxIsrDpcLoop**     | Maximum ISR Dpc Loop time in microseconds                                                                                                                                            |
| **GlitchCount**       | Number of glitches acceptable during playback                                                                                                                                        |

 

 

 






